WORKING PAPER SERIES

No. 150 | July 2024

Degen, Dominik | Kengelbach, Jens | Kim, Daniel |
Sievers, Sönke | Wang, Yiran

Large language models and M&A:
Can ChatGPT help forecast M&A
activity?

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency
Funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation):
Collaborative Research Center (SFB/TRR) – Project-ID 403041268 – TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

www.accounting-for-transparency.de

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Large Language Models and M&A:
Can ChatGPT help forecast M&A activity?

Dominik Degena,b, Jens Kengelbacha, Daniel Kima, Soenke Sieversb, Yiran Wanga
First version: February 23, 2024
This version: July 1, 2024

Abstract
This paper employs ChatGPT on firms’ earnings conference calls transcripts to extract managers’
so far private information regarding their sentiment and expectations concerning (future) mergers
and acquisitions (M&A) activity. We aggregate these firm-level scores to a market wide ChatGPTbased M&A sentiment score (MASS) and successfully perform various construct validity checks
including employing M&A experts and back testing. Our main results suggest that M&A sentiment
has strong forecasting power for future M&A activity and adds additional explanatory power to
established sentiment indices and fundamental drivers. The predictability holds for both in-sample
and out-of-sample tests. Overall, our novel index will be useful to further understand M&A
patterns, to predict future M&A activity, and for practitioners to evaluate and benchmark their own
M&A activities.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Takeover Waves, M&A Sentiment, Generative AI, LLMs, ChatGPT, Textual
Analysis
JEL Classification: G34
Acknowledgments: We would like to thank Ashish Baid and Thomas Endter for providing extensive input and
comments based on their M&A expertise. Furthermore, we are thankful for the technical support provided from
Reeyarn Li and Francesca Pietrogrande. Finally, Soenke Sievers greatly acknowledges funding by the Deutsche
Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation)—Project-ID 403041268— TRR 266. All errors are
our own.
a

Boston Consulting Group, Ludwigstrasse 21, 80539 Munich, Germany, degen.dominik@bcg.com (corresponding
author), kengelbach.jens@bcg.com, kim.daniel@bcg.com, wang.yiran@bcg.com,
b
Paderborn University, Warburger Str. 100, 33098 Paderborn, Germany, soenke.sievers@wiwi.uni-paderborn.de

1
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

1.

Introduction
Mergers and acquisitions (M&A) are a major tool for corporate executives to restructure and
adjust their firms to the continuously changing economic and competitive landscape. Thus,
understanding firm’s M&A behavior over time has sparked researchers’ and practitioners’
interest for decades given its tremendous importance for the involved firms, their executives
and employees, and overall capital spending. Prior literature has established that M&A activity
occurs in waves and that trade networks, economic, regulatory, and technological shocks
determine merger waves (e.g., Harford, 2005; Ahmad et al., 2021). Furthermore, other
fundamental factors such as valuation levels and financial conditions influence merger
patterns and thus future aggregate M&A activity (Rhodes-Kropf and Viswanathan, 2004;
Cornaggia and Li, 2019). However, private information and expectations of managers might
play a key role in driving M&A activity over time given that recent research shows that firms’
expectations and sentiments appear to be a very important determinant of stock returns as well
as general investment activities (e.g, Jiang et al., 2019; Gennaioli et al., 2016). Altanlar et al.
(2024) establish that aggregate manager sentiment also impacts payment choices in M&A as
well as acquirer’s stock market reactions.
One channel to convey private information about planned deal activity are transcripts from
earnings conference calls. While it was challenging in the past to extract those expectations
out of thousands of these reports, the advent of natural language processing and textual
analysis (including its sub-discipline sentiment analysis) as well as large language models
(LLMs) have made this task feasible. Thus, this paper builds a novel M&A sentiment score
(MASS) leveraging ChatGPT to extract private information from firm’s conference calls
transcripts regarding M&A activity. The core result is that our sentiment score predicts future

2
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

M&A deal volume on a global scale for up to 18 months controlling for other well-established
general sentiment indices and firm fundamentals. Furthermore, it is useful in various markets
and industries.
Our paper complements the quickly growing literature on LLMs that investigate other
interesting variables such as stocks returns, asset class selection or other financial
communication such as Federal Reserve announcements.
Turning to the literature on stock returns Bond et al. (2023) investigate the predictive
capabilities of LLMs, ChatGPT and BARD, in the context of forecasting aggregate stock
market returns by extracting relevant daily summaries of business news from which they
construct a market sentiment indicator. Relatedly, Lopez-Lira and Tang (2023) examine the
potential of ChatGPT and other LLMs to predict stock market returns by categorizing news
headlines with ChatGPT as positive, negative, or neutral for companies’ stock prices and
document a significant correlation between their ChatGPT scores and subsequent daily stock
returns. In contrast, Kim et al. (2023) probe the economic usefulness of ChatGPT by using
summaries of complex corporate disclosures to explain stock market reactions. Kim et al.
(2024) also study whether LLMs can perform financial statement analysis like a professional
human analyst and find, for instance, that ChatGPT outperforms financial analysts in their
ability to predict earnings changes. Kirtac and Germano (2024) test three LLMs, Bert,
FinBERT, and GPT-3-based OPT for sentiment analysis of news articles to predict stock
market returns against the benchmark of classical dictionary-based sentiment analysis (using
the dictionary of Loughran and McDonald (2011)).
Ko and Lee (2023) employ ChatGPT to select asset classes and evaluate the diversification
effect of its selections to gain a better understanding of LLMs as potential assistants for

3
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

portfolio managers. While Hansen and Kazinnik (2023) show that LLMs like ChatGPT can
decode Fedspeak (i.e., the language used by the Fed to communicate on monetary policy
decisions), Beckmann et al. (2024) devise a prompting strategy for ChatGPT to identify and
analyze unusual aspects of financial communication. Bai et al. (2023) introduce a new
measure of information content (Human Machine Differences, HAID) by analyzing the
difference between answers provided by actual corporate CFOs and CEOs and those given by
LLMs to questions from earnings conference calls Q&A sessions. In a different setting, Jha et
al. (2023) use ChatGPT to extract managerial expectations of corporate policies from
disclosures by creating a firm-level ChatGPT investment score, based on conference call texts,
that measures managers’ anticipated changes in capital expenditures but not aggregate M&A
activity as we do in this paper. Andreou et al. (2023) use ChatGPT to validate whether forwardlooking R&D disclosures in 10-K filings appear to be overly optimistic.
There is also a growing body of literature offering comprehensive reviews on the topic. While
Dong et al. (2023) provide an initial review of publications and working papers on ChatGPT
and related Large Language Models (LLMs) in accounting and finance, a paper by Chen et al.
(2023) reviews recent developments of generative AI in business and finance, summarizes its
practical applications, provides examples of the latest generative AI tools, and demonstrates
that generative AI can revolutionize data analysis in industry and academia.
Contrary to the existing literature mentioned above, our research focuses on the application of
sentiment analysis with LLMs to forecast future M&A activity. Specifically, we pose the
research question: Can the private information and expectations of managers about future
M&A transactions – referred to as 'M&A sentiment' and derived through generative AI tools
such as ChatGPT – serve as a predictive indicator for overall future M&A deal volume?

4
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

We answer this question using 40,776 conference call transcripts from July 2013 to December
2023 for the 1,200 unique companies of the S&P Global 1200 Index. To be precise, for each
conference call, we identified the paragraphs where M&A topics are addressed and then ask
ChatGPT to generate an M&A sentiment score between -2 (very negative) and +2 (very
positive) related to the sentiment of future M&A activity and aggregate the results to form an
M&A sentiment score (MASS). We then perform several tests to validate our score.
First, we challenge the results of ChatGPT by – for a sample of paragraphs from 100 randomly
selected M&A-relevant conference call transcripts – comparing its results to other LLMs and
the assessments of human M&A experts. Our results show that there is a high correlation
between the results of the LLMs and the human experts. We choose to use the GPT-4.0 model
as it has the highest correlation with the consensus answers of the human experts.
Second, we also investigate the correlation between our results and realized deal activity to
assess its usefulness. We also test several transformations of our score – which are time lags,
differences vs. absolute levels, and quintiles separation – and their combinations to find the
best predictor. Given that there is a large literature regarding the preparation time of M&A
transactions including target identification, deal negotiation etc., we deliberately investigate
meaningful lag structures of our index and our outcome variable MASS.1 In line with prior
literature and economic intuition, we find that a 18-month lagged structure is most useful for
predicting aggregate M&A activity.
Third, we perform extensive (back) testing. We compare MASS against several other wellestablished indices such as the University of Michigan Consumer Confidence Index, the
OECD Business Confidence Index, and two Investor Sentiment indices (Baker and Wurgler,

1

This lead-lag structure is also employed in other papers such as Gennaioli et al., 2016; Jiang et al., 2019, p.
144, table 12.

5
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

2006; Huang et al., 2015). We find that, while most of these indices are also indicators of
future M&A activity, our MASS provides incremental predictive power above these indices.
Fourth, we also compare MASS against fundamental factors such as interest rates, market
volatility, valuation levels, and others. If our index captures managers’ expectations in addition
to fundamentals, we expect that it contains incremental predictive power for future M&A
activity. This expectation is based on other recent studies using textual analysis to capture
investor or manager sentiment and, for instance, predict aggregate stock returns (e.g., Jiang et
al., 2019). We can conclude that our MASS seems to capture valuable information which goes
beyond information already included in fundamental factors – a finding that is both
statistically and economically significant.
Fifth, we perform a forecast encompassing test and out-of-sample forecasting to further test
our findings. In the out-of-sample forecasting – similar to the results of the forecast
encompassing test – MASS outperforms other sentiment indices besides the OECD Business
Confidence Index. However, when combining the OECD Business Confidence Index with
MASS, we still can improve forecasting performance, establishing that MASS adds predictive
power.
Overall, our empirical results suggest that M&A sentiment has strong forecasting power for
future M&A activity. The predictability holds for both in-sample and out-of-sample tests and
can generate significant insights for decision makers involved in M&A activities.

6
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

2.

Data and methodology
2.1. Data and preparation
We use public companies’ earnings call transcripts for the purpose of extracting firms’
sentiment towards M&A for all companies of the S&P Global 1200 index (the index
constituents) as of January 2024 for the period July 2013 to December 2023 from Refinitiv
(now part of LSEG), resulting in a total of 39,696 unique transcripts. Earnings calls (and their
transcripts) usually consist of two parts: a management presentation and a Q&A session. In
the management presentation the firm’s executives comment on current operations and
oftentimes provide guidance for the (near) future. In the Q&A session financial analysts and
other participants can ask questions to the management team. Even though some researchers
do not consider the management presentation for analysis because it is assumed that these
convey less novel information (e.g., Lee, 2016; Li et al., 2021), we take both parts into account
as both provide incremental information compared to the financial reports and press releases
(e.g., Matsumoto et al., 2011).
The transcripts are provided in a .txt file format. Conscious of processing time and budget, we
then extract a random sample of 25% of the identified paragraphs yielding a total of 9,805
unique transcripts for further analysis. We distill the paragraphs relevant for M&A from these
transcripts using a list of M&A-related keywords (see appendix A.1), resulting in a total of
154,335 mentions of a M&A keyword within 37,549 identified paragraphs within a total of
9,421 relevant transcripts. For all paragraphs, we also extract the date and time of the earnings
call and the company’s name and ticker.

7
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

2.2. Methodology, prompting, and language model selection
ChatGPT and sentiment analysis
ChatGPT, developed by OpenAI, is an advanced artificial intelligence language model that
utilizes the GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer) architecture to deliver human-like text
based on input prompts (see, e.g., Vaswani et al., 2017). As a Large Language Model (LLM),
ChatGPT has been trained on a diverse dataset encompassing a wide array of internet text.
This extensive training enables the model to generate coherent and contextually relevant text
responses based on the input it receives. This capability not only facilitates a broad spectrum
of applications ranging from text generation such as summarization to conversation simulation
such as answering questions and engaging in dialogue. It can also – and in our context will –
be used for sentiment analysis, i.e., discerning the emotional tone behind a body of text.
Sentiment analysis, a sub-discipline of natural language processing (NLP), involves the
computational identification and categorization of opinions or emotions within text data to
allow the extraction of subjective information. It traditionally relies on complex algorithms
that parse text to detect sentiments such as positivity, negativity, neutrality, or more nuanced
emotions. Methods commonly used for sentiment analysis are rule-based methods usually
utilizing word lexicons (e.g., Loughran and McDonald, 2011; Loughran and McDonald, 2016;
Karapandza, 2016; Humphery-Jenner, 2024; Massoud et al., 2024) as well as machine learning
algorithms (e.g., Naive Bayes, support vector machines) and hybrid methods (e.g., Loughran
and McDonald, 2024; Hertel et al., 2024, Bhagwat et al., 2024).
ChatGPT's capability to understand and generate human-like text makes it exceptionally
suited for sentiment analysis tasks. Its understanding of language nuances and context offers
an intuitive approach to sentiment analysis. By processing the input text, it can capture the

8
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

sentiment it conveys. We access ChatGPT through the OpenAI API (application programming
interface) enabling us to automate sentiment analysis on a large scale using our conference
call transcript dataset.2

Prompt engineering
The text inputs – that provide context and instructions – given from users to an LLM are called
prompts. Prompts are written in natural human language and their framing affects the output
of the model. Prompt engineering is the craft of writing effective prompts that enhance output
quality for specific tasks by influencing the model’s behavior (e.g., Brown et al., 2020;
Reynolds and McDonell, 2021; Dong et al., 2023; Gao, 2023; White et al., 2024).
We use the following prompt in our study and apply it to the relevant paragraphs:
As a finance expert, determine whether the paragraph is related to Mergers and Acquisitions
(M&A). If it is M&A-related, rate its sentiment towards M&A on a scale from -2 to 2, where:
-2 indicates a very negative sentiment
-1 indicates a mildly negative sentiment
0 indicates a neutral sentiment
1 indicates a mildly positive sentiment
2 indicates a very positive sentiment
If the paragraph is not related to M&A, the sentiment should be marked as null.
Furthermore, analyze if the paragraph indicates any reference towards future M&A
activities.
Format your response as a JSON object with the keys "M&A related", "Sentiment", and
"Future reference". The values for "M&A related" and "Future reference" should be
formatted as booleans.

There are many other LLMs such as Gemini (previously called BARD, developed by Google), Claude (developed
by Anthropic), or Perplexity.AI to list a few, and we elaborate below in a separate section, why we choose ChatGPT.
2

9
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Review text: '''{text}'''
In this prompt, we ask ChatGPT, to assume the role of a finance expert (“role prompting”).
The term “{text}” is substituted with the respective paragraph during the query. The task is to
first assess whether the paragraph is indeed related to M&A. Second, we ask to provide an
estimate whether the sentiment of the paragraph is very negative (-2), negative (-1), neutral
(0), mildly positive (+1), or very positive (+2). All paragraphs not related to M&A should be
marked as “null”. In addition, we ask ChatGPT whether the paragraph is related to future
M&A activity, i.e., whether it is a forward-looking statement. We have set the temperature
parameter (a parameter of ChatGPT models that governs the randomness and the creativity of
the responses) to zero to obtain answers as objective and reproducible as possible.

Large language model selection and construct validity checks
Currently, there is emerging academic literature that test different LLMs regarding their
performance and effectiveness in supporting finance and accounting research (e.g., Rane et
al., 2024). In addition, there are efforts to train specific LLMs, for instance, for finance
applications (so called FinLLMs) (e.g., Li et al., 2023).
For our analyses, we have predominantly relied on the latest version of OpenAI’s ChatGPT,
which at the time of our analyses was GPT-4.0. However, we have also tested other LLMs
such as OpenAI’s GPT-4o and GPT-3.5-Turbo, Perplexity AI, Claude (from Anthropic) and
Gemini (from Google, formerly known as BARD). For the tests, we have compiled a sample
of M&A-related paragraphs from 100 randomly selected M&A-relevant earnings call
transcripts and provided all the above listed LLMs with the same prompt. In addition, we also
leveraged BCG’s global network of M&A experts and exposed them with the same sample

10
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

and prompt that was given to the LLMs to investigate whether human intelligence and
artificial intelligence align with each other. In appendix A.2, we have listed a few exemplary
paragraphs and the respective answers from GPT-4.0, GPT-3.5-Turbo, Gemini, and the
consensus answers from the human experts.
Our test results show that there is a high correlation between the human and the machine
answers (see appendix A.3). It also shows that the deviation between the different answers of
the human experts is not much unlike the deviation between the answers of the LLMs. The
highest correlation between the human consensus answers is with GPT-4.0, which is the model
that we have then chosen for our analyses.
In addition, to gain a better understanding whether ChatGPT can identify M&A sentiment, we
have generated word clouds for paragraphs with high and low ChatGPT predicted scores (+2
and −2) to identify common themes (see appendix A.4). The word clouds differ significantly.
The high M&A sentiment score cloud reveals positive words such as “well”, “strong”, and
“good” as well as themes such as “growth”, “integration” or “result” indicating a positive
stance on M&A. In contrast, the low M&A sentiment score cloud shows negative connotated
words such as “negative” or “failed” and uncovers themes around “charge”, “impairment”, or
“goodwill” indicating difficulties with M&A deals.
Lastly, please note that our results are biased against finding support for our research question,
if other LLMs are more powerful to extract sentiment given that this would provide even
stronger support for our predictions.

11
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Calculation of the M&A sentiment score
After analyzing all paragraphs and assigning a sentiment (-2, -1, 0, +1, +2) to each one, we
calculate a simple average for each transcript – equally weighting all paragraphs’ sentiments.
We then apply the same methodology, i.e. using simple averaging, to aggregate all transcripts
of a given month to form a monthly aggregate. To arrive at the raw score, which we will
analyze and transform into our newly developed variable, called MASS in section 3, we, lastly,
calculate a rolling 3-month moving average. This has several advantages: Due to quarterly
reporting and earnings call cadence, using this 3-months window captures one reporting cycle
for all companies in the S&P Global 1200 index. Additionally, it helps to smoothen volatility
in the raw score for months with a low number of transcripts, usually the last month of each
quarter.

2.3. Additional data: Further indices and fundamental variables
To perform comparative analysis and other tests (see also, e.g., Jiang et al., 2019), we use four
established and well-documented indices, which have been developed to measure investor,
consumer, and business sentiment (see appendix A.5 for variables definitions and sources).
•

BAKER_WURGLER: The Baker and Wurgler (2006) investor sentiment index is the
first principle component of six stock market-based sentiment proxies, including the
closed-end fund discount, NYSE share turnover, the number and average first-day
returns on IPOs, the equity share in new issues, and the dividend premium.

•

HUANG_ET_AL: An investor sentiment index developed by Huang et al. (2015),
which exploits the information in Baker and Wurgler’s six investor sentiment proxies
more efficiently using the partial least square method.

12
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

•

UM_CSI: The University of Michigan consumer sentiment index is a monthly survey
conducted by phone based on a representative sample of US households.

•

OECD_BCI: The OECD Business Confidence Index is an indicator derived from
opinion surveys about future developments in production, orders, and stocks of
finished goods in the industrial sector.

These sentiment indices have been widely used in various studies (e.g., Stambaugh et al.,
2012; Sibley et al., 2016; Jiang et al., 2019; McGurk et al., 2020). However, it is also possible
that the explanatory power of the M&A sentiment index for M&A activity comes from its
information about the business cycle and other economic or financial conditions, which have
been established in the M&A wave literature (e.g., Harford, 2005; Ahmad et al., 2021; RhodesKropf and Viswanathan, 2004; Cornaggia and Li, 2019). To control for this, we have also
leveraged several fundamental indicators such as volatility, valuation levels, leverage levels,
etc. (see appendix A.5 for variables definitions and sources).
We provide an overview of summary statistics for all relevant variables in Table 1.

[INSERT TABLE 1 ABOUT HERE]

3.

Results
In this section, we investigate the statistical and economic significance and explanatory power
of our ChatGPT generated M&A sentiment score. We first test which transformation, i.e., leadlag-structure etc., of the raw sentiment score has the highest explanatory power (which we
will then call MASS). Secondly, we then compare it with four established economic indices
as well as several fundamental factors such as interest rates, volatility, etc. Lastly, we explore

13
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

its out-of-sample performance to investigate the information content in our newly developed
core variable.

3.1. Transformation and creation of MASS
In a first step, we plot the ChatGPT-derived sentiment (our raw M&A sentiment score) and
the actual realized deal activity (measured as monthly number of M&A deals with a deal value
above $100 million USD) to investigate the correlation between the two timeseries.
In Figure 1, the solid blue line depicts our raw M&A sentiment score while the solid red line
represents M&A deal activity. The dashed and dotted lines represent the Baker and Wurgler
(2006) investor sentiment index (BAKER_WURGLER), the Huang et al. (2015) aligned
investor sentiment index (HUANG_ET_AL), the consumer sentiment index from the
University of Michigan (UM_CSI), and the OECD business confidence index (OECD_BCI).

[INSERT FIGURE 1 ABOUT HERE]

While we cannot identify a clear co-movement between the two variables, M&A sentiment score
and M&A deal activity, we hypothesize that there are many factors at work which lead to a more
indirect relationship between our raw M&A sentiment score and realized deal activity. Thus, we
test the following three hypotheses:
H1: M&A deals need time to be prepared and executed. Thus, positive M&A sentiment
will need several months, potentially up to 1-2 years, to materialize in announced deals as
deal preparation and execution take time, e.g., to source target companies, conduct due

14
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

diligence (e.g., Aktas et al., 2013; Daley et al., 2024) or prepare business units or
subsidiaries for divestiture.
H2: The absolute sentiment level might not be the driving force but rather changes in
sentiment or its momentum. During periods of changing external factors, decision makers
might hold back or engage more in M&A than during stable times. This follows the M&A
wave literature (e.g., Harford, 2005; Ahmad et al., 2021; Rhodes-Kropf and Viswanathan,
2004, Cornaggia and Li, 2019) as well as stock market literature related to sentiment (e.g.,
Carhart, 1997).
H3: Potentially, sentiment only really matters during times (i.e., regimes) of very positive
or very negative sentiment. While in „normal times” it’s not so much about sentiment but
rather other factors. This aligns with the prevailing view in the relevant literature (e.g.,
Duchin and Schmidt, 2013).
To test these hypotheses, we run several regressions to identify, which transformation of our
raw M&A sentiment score is the best predictor for realized M&A activity. In the following,
the dependent variable for all regressions is the announced number of deals with a deal value
of more than $100 million USD.
Based on the hypothesis 1 (H1) that M&A activity needs preparation time and a decision to
engage in transactions does not immediately lead to closed deals, we investigate how deal
activity is explained by the lagged raw sentiment score. To do so, we regress M&A activity
against lagged values of our raw sentiment score.

[INSERT TABLE 2 ABOUT HERE]

15
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

The results confirm our initial hypothesis as lagged sentiment turns statistically significant
starting with a lag of 9 months. The best performance in the sense of adj. R2 is achieved when
lagging the sentiment score by 18 months; this lag is also highly significant with a t-statistic
of 3.5 and adj. R2 of 9.1%. After 18 months, explanatory power decreases again. This result is
in line with Hypothesis 1 that it takes companies about 1-2 years to act on positive sentiment
towards M&A through announced and, subsequently, closed deals.
Our results of a negative coefficient for lagged sentiment for 6 months lag and beyond, also
indicate some cyclical behavior in M&A activity. One could assume that the negative
coefficient is driven by the fact that a highly positive sentiment indicates a late stage of the
cycle and several months later deal activity will be down again. This is comparable to the
finding that in stock markets, very positive sentiment can be an indicator for subsequently
lower equity returns—thereby indicating a later stage of the market cycles (e.g., Arif and Lee,
2014).
Next, we test Hypothesis 2 whether sentiment momentum drives deal activity. Aligned with
our earlier finding, we use lagged differences (i.e. comparing current sentiment with prior
sentiment) in the regression against M&A activity.

[INSERT TABLE 2 ABOUT HERE]

The results are consistent with our Hypothesis 2 as the lagged difference is statistically
significant again and has the expected positive sign. Positively changing sentiment seems to
be driving M&A activity 12-18 months later. Again, the best predictive power is achieved with
a lag of 18 months with a t-statistic of 2.44 and adj. R2 of 6.2%.

16
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Lastly, we test Hypothesis 3 that in fact the extreme values of sentiment matter more than the
sentiment ranges “in the middle”. Thus, we divide the sentiment index into quintiles (again
lagged by 18 months in line with our findings regarding H1 and H2). We then run a regression
with the corresponding indicator variables for each of the quintiles. Our results indicate indeed
that being in the extreme 20% (positive or negative) has a significant impact on deal activity
while the three groups in the middle do not have a significant effect on deal activity. This is in
line with the literature mentioned above and support our hypotheses 3.

[INSERT TABLE 4 ABOUT HERE]

Based on the above results establishing that the 18 months lagged ChatGPT generated
sentiment variable shows the best predictive performance (measured through adj R2), we
finally have to investigate whether we should employ the 18 months lagged raw sentiment
score , lagged sentiment momentum (i.e. changes in the raw sentiment) or both. Therefore, we
perform a multivariate regression including MASS and MASS momentum.

[INSERT TABLE 5 ABOUT HERE]

The regression results are reported in Table 5. While the difference variable is statistically
insignificant, the lagged sentiment remains economically and statistically significant.
Therefore, for the rest of the paper, we will rely only on MASS as indicator for M&A
sentiment.

17
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

3.2. Comparison with other indices
In the remainder of the paper, we further scrutinize our MASS and its additional value beyond
other sentiment-related indices as well as fundamental indicators. To get a first view and
insight on how our MASS compares with other indices, we report the correlation matrix in
figure 2.

[INSERT FIGURE 2 ABOUT HERE]

Our MASS has a (absolute) correlation coefficient between 26% and 46% with the other four
indices as defined in section 2.3. It is positively correlated with BAKER_WURGLER and
HUANG_ET_AL, which indicates that it is to some degree capturing similar information; but
also seems to have substantial other information as we will see in the later analyses. MASS is
correlated with -46% with the UM_CSI, which is a similar picture to the other two “sentiment
measurements”. They also have a strong negative correlation with this consumer sentiment
index. In line with economic intuition, this finding indicates that our MASS as well as the
other two indices capture something that is quite distinct from “consumer sentiment”; these
three indices are capturing private information of companies and their top management rather
than “uninformed general public” sentiment as the UM_CSI does. Interestingly, the
correlation with OECD_BCI is negative as well; this could be connected to the cyclicality
argument made earlier.
Next, we put MASS to a test versus these indices and analyze whether MASS is still a
significantly contributing factor for predicting M&A activity when including these other
indices. To perform a like-for-like comparison, we also lagged all other indices by 18 months.

18
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

[INSERT TABLE 6 ABOUT HERE]

The results reported in Table 6 show interesting insights: All other indices, apart from
HUANG_ET_AL, are also significantly correlated with M&A activity. Furthermore, our
MASS remains statistically significant even when combining it with one or all other indices.
Lastly, a combination of MASS and OECD_BCI alone can explain 44% of deal activity 18
months later, which is a large value considering the complex market for corporate transactions.
Also, economically, the coefficient of MASS has a relevant magnitude. Considering
regression (5) from Table 6, a one-standard-deviation increase in MASS lowers predicted
M&A deal volume by almost 4%.

3.3. Comparison with fundamental factors
Following the M&A wave literature (see, e.g., Harford, 2005) M&A activity is driven by
fundamental factors. Fundamental factors are variables, which are measured on an aggregate
level and mostly the result of market activity or other economic equilibria. It is, therefore, a
natural next step to also compare our MASS with these fundamental factors. There is a wide
body of established research on determinants of M&A activity (mostly in the context of the
“M&A waves” literature). 3 Harford (2005) shows that economic, technological, and
regulatory shocks in combination with capital liquidity drive merger waves. Dittmar and

Research in this area is often clustered in two strings of theory that are somewhat overlapping: The neoclassical
efficiency hypothesis based on rational decision making and market efficiency and the market misvaluation hypothesis
focused on irrational market misvaluations and behavioral aspects such as manager discretion (e.g., Shleifer and
Vishny, 2003; Rau and Stouraitis, 2011). Martynova and Renneboog (2008) divide the M&A waves research into four
clusters.
3

19
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Dittmar (2008) find evidence that merger activity is procyclical to the business cycle. An
often-postulated source of the variation in M&A activity is (stock) market cyclicality and
valuation levels (e.g., Jovanovic and Rousseau, 2001; Shleifer and Vishny, 2003; RhodesKropf and Viswanathan, 2004; Rhodes-Kropf et al., 2005; Morellec and Zhdanov, 2005; Dong
et al., 2006). Another frequently investigated area of activity drivers is financing, from credit
market conditions and liquidity to cash holdings and leverage (e.g., Maksimovic et al., 2013;
Uysal, 2011; Erel et al., 2021). Other drivers are related to market uncertainty and economic
conditions. While Bhagwat et al. (2016) focus on the link between M&A deals and market
conditions (using the volatility index VIX as a measure for uncertainty), Gulen and Ion (2015)
as well as Bonaime et al. (2018) focus on the impact of political and regulatory uncertainty on
investment and M&A activity. Ferris et al. (2013) establish that CEO (over)confidence also
plays a critical role in M&A activity.
Based on the above-mentioned literature, we have selected six variables for our comparative
analysis to cover the most common themes, of course, acknowledging that there are further
variables that could be used for testing:
•

Stock market index level (SPIDX): Indicator for the broader state of the market and
economy.

•

Valuation levels (SPVAL): Indicator for current “price point” and particulary relevant for
deals with shares as method of payment.

•

Interest rates (IGR): Cost of capital and financing conditions are a key item in any
investment and M&A decision.

•

Leverage (SPLEV): Indicator for financial firepower and flexibility to do M&A deals.

20
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

•

Market volatility (VIX): Indicator of risk; M&A activity is usually lower in high-risk
environments.

•

Business confidence (OECD_BCI): Indicator for broader economic conditions, manager
sentiment, and expectations. We have again relied on the OECD_BCI as a fundamental
variable (in addition to being one of our benchmark indices in section 3.2) as it covers
above-mentioned factors such as CEO confidence and political, regulatory, and economic
uncertainty.

For details on the indices and data points used, please refer to appendix A.5 (variables
definitions and sources).
Table 7 shows regression results for monthly deal activity against each fundamental factor
alone and then against a combination of the fundamental factor and our MASS. The results in
Table 7 imply, first, that many fundamental factors alone are already decent predictors for
M&A activity—especially IGR and OECD_BCI. Second, and most importantly, our MASS
remains statistically significant when combined with each of the fundamental factors (tstatistic >1.81 for all models). Also, adding MASS to a multi-factor regression increases the
adjusted R2 by 4-12 percentage points, which is statistically and economically significant. For
all fundamental variables, we can also reject the null hypothesis of a log-likelihood test that
the model with only the respective fundamental variable performs better than the alternative
model including our MASS.

[INSERT TABLE 7 ABOUT HERE]

21
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

From an economic significance point of view, the coefficients for MASS from Table 7 imply
a sizeable effect between -3% and -9% per standard deviation increase of MASS compared to
the historical average deal volume.
In sum, we conclude that our MASS seems to capture valuable information, which goes
beyond information already included in fundamental factors. To conclude our analysis, we
consider its performance for our-of-sample forecasting in the next section.

3.4. Forecast encompassing test
We assess the information content of our M&A Sentiment Score (MASS) against the four
indices introduced in section 3.2. by conducting a forecast encompassing test, which is a
statistical method used to directly compare two sets of forecasts and determine whether one
set of forecasts contains all the relevant information from the other set, thereby rendering the
other redundant. We follow the approach developed by Harvey et al. (1998) also applied by
Jiang et al. (2019) and Table 8 reports the p-values for the test. The statistic corresponds to a
one-sided (upper-tail) test of the null hypothesis that the predictive regression forecast for the
monthly M&A activity based on one of the predictors given in the first column encompasses
the forecast based on one of the predictors given in the first row, against the alternative
hypothesis that the forecast given in the first column does not encompass the forecast given
in the first row. The predictors are our M&A Sentiment Score (MASS), the Baker and Wurgler
(2006) investor sentiment index (BAKER_WURGLER), the Huang et al. (2015) aligned
investor sentiment index (HUANG_ET_AL), the University of Michigan consumer sentiment
index (UM_CSI), and the OECD business confidence index (OECD_BCI). The sample period
ranges from 2013 to 2023.

22
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

[INSERT TABLE 8 ABOUT HERE]

The results in Table 8 confirm our prior findings: MASS seems to capture information distinct
from HUANG_ET_AL and UM_CSI as can be seen by p-values above 0.1 (Row 1 of Table
8). Taking HUANG_ET_AL as an example, the coefficient of a regression of the error terms
of the forecast using MASS regressed against HUANG_ET_AL has a p-value of 0.98. This
indicates that there is no additional forecasting value included in HUANG_ET_AL after the
first-step forecast using MASS. The BAKER_WURGLER index, however, seems to include
additional forecasting value not yet included in our MASS.
When using the alternative indices in the first step and then adding MASS in the second step
(Column 1), we again confirm that MASS adds predictive value above and beyond
HUANG_ET_AL and UM_CSI—but not versus BAKER_WURGLER and OECD_BCI.
The other finding we have already seen before is the relatively strong performance of
OECD_BCI. It seems to capture a lot of information already included in all the other indices.
Thus, OECD_BCI alone seems to be a very strong predictor of M&A activity. But as we have
also shown, adding our MASS to a prediction model improves its performance and is,
therefore, beneficial in the context of predicting deal activity.

3.5. Out-of-sample forecasting results.
In this section, we investigate the out-of-sample forecasting performance of our M&A
sentiment score (MASS) as well as the other indices in predicting the monthly deal volume.
We consider the out-of-sample R2 (R2OS) following Campbell and Thompson (2008), which

23
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

measures the decrease in the mean squared forecast error (MSFE) compared to simply using
the historical average as predictor for the next period (see also Jiang et al, 2019 for an
application of the Campbell and Thomson, 2008 approach). Additionally, we analyze the
adjusted MSFE according to Clark and West (2007), which tests whether the out-of-sampleforecast of the employed index has a lower MSFE than the historical average as predictor. The
results are reported in Table 9.
Looking at R2OS, we confirm the earlier finding that MASS is a strong predictor for future
M&A activity and that it outperforms other sentiment measures such as BAKER_WURGLER,
HUANG_ET_AL and UM_CSI. However, OECD_BCI remains the strongest predictor
among the group and significantly outperforms all others. It can predict almost half of the
variance in monthly deal volume. This is confirmed by the p-values of the adjusted MSFE—
but it is significant for all variables used.

[INSERT TABLE 9 ABOUT HERE]

Next, we investigate whether adding our MASS to a prediction which is based on OECD_BCI
improves the predictive power. Based on the established literature that equal weighting of two
information sets provides a powerful measure (e.g., Jiang et al, 2019), we run the same outof-sample tests for an index, which is the equally weighted average of MASS and OECD_BCI
as well as for an average where the weights are freely determined in each period to optimize
forecasting performance.
These two indices and their results are listed as EW_MASS_BCI and FREE_MASS_BCI in
Table 9. Adding the MASS increases the R2OS by 1.4%-points when weighting both equally

24
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

and by 0.5%-points in the freely determined average. This result shows that while OECD_BCI
is a strong predictor for deal value on its own, adding our MASS to the mix helps to
statistically improve the forecasting performance.

4.

Conclusion
In this study, we propose a novel M&A sentiment index constructed based on the aggregate
textual tone of conference call transcripts employing ChatGPT. Being precise, we use
ChatGPT to analyze M&A sentiment in individual transcripts from S&P Global 1200
companies from July 2013 until December 2023. Next, we aggregate the individual sentiment
scores and generate an aggregate M&A sentiment score (MASS) to test its usefulness for
predicting future M&A activity.
We find that the best prediction timeframe is 18 months, i.e., our raw M&A sentiment score
is a useful indictor for M&A activity one and a half years in the future. Further, our results
suggest that the momentum in sentiment as well as its level relative to the full range is also
informing how M&A activity will behave in the future.
Overall, we find that our MASS captures economic and statistical incremental useful
information for predicting M&A activity compared to other established sentiment measures
or fundamental factors. Therefore, when building a forecasting model for future M&A deal
volumes, one should add MASS to the mix of variables as it increases predictive power
significantly.
While testing different LLMs, we found that GPT-4.0 came closest to our benchmark
(consensus of human subject matter experts), while other LLMs did not lag far behind. Our
approach can of course be developed further as the research and development of LLMs, and

25
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

their applications advances continuously. Improved and new models as well as deeper insights
into prompt engineering might open potential for continuous development. During our
analyses, we were also intrigued by how powerful OECD’s Business Confidence Index seems
to be in predicting M&A activity. We, therefore, see applications of the BCI as a potential
future area for research in M&A and beyond.
In sum, our empirical results suggest that M&A sentiment has strong forecasting power for
future M&A activity. The predictability holds for both in-sample and out-of-sample tests and
can generate significant insights for decision makers involved in M&A activities.

26
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

CRediT authorship contribution statement
Dominik Degen: Writing - Review & Editing, Writing - Original Draft, Project
administration,

Supervision,

Visualization,

Conceptualization,

Methodology,

Validation, Formal analysis, Software. Jens Kengelbach: Writing - Review & Editing,
Resources. Daniel Kim: Writing - Review & Editing, Writing - Original Draft, Visualization,
Conceptualization,

Methodology,

Validation,

Formal

analysis,

Investigation,

Software, Data Curation. Soenke Sievers: Writing - Review & Editing, Writing - Original
Draft, Supervision, Visualization, Conceptualization, Methodology, Validation, Formal
analysis, Software. Yiran Wang: Writing - Review & Editing, Methodology, Validation,
Formal analysis, Investigation, Software, Data Curation.

Declaration of competing interest
The authors Dominik Degen, Jens Kengelbach, Daniel Kim, and Yiran Wang work for the
Boston Consulting Group from which they receive salary. Soenke Sievers does not have any
declarations of competing interest.

Data availability
The data is available from sources cited in the text. Our results are available upon request.

References
Ahmad, M. F., de Bodt, E., Harford, J. (2021). International Trade and the Propagation of
Merger Waves. The Review of Financial Studies, 34 (10), 4876–4925.
Aktas, N., de Bodt, E., Roll, R. (2013). Learning from repetitive acquisitions: Evidence from
the time between deals. Journal of Financial Economics, 108 (1), 99-117.

27
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Altanlar, A., Amini1, S., Sunon, K.H. (2024). Aggregate Manager Sentiment and the Choice
of Mergers and Acquisitions Payment Method. Working Paper, Available at SSRN:
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4815648.
Andreou, P.C., Lambertides, N., Magidou, M. (2023) Stock Price Crash Risk and the
Managerial Rhetoric Mechanism: Evidence from R&D Disclosure in 10-K filings. Working
Paper, Available at SSRN: http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3891736.
Arif, S., & Lee, C. M. C. (2014). Aggregate investment and investor sentiment. The Review
of Financial Studies, 27 (11), 3241–3279.
Bai, J., Boyson, N., Cao, Y., Liu, M., Wan, C. (2023). Executives vs. Chatbots: Unmasking
Insights through Human-AI Differences in Earnings Conference Q&A. Working Paper,
Available at SSRN: http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4480056.
Baker, M., Wurgler, J. (2006). Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock returns. The
Journal of Finance, 61 (4), 1645–1680.
Beckman, L., Beckmeyer, H., Filippou, I., Menze, S., Zhou, G. (2024). Unusual Financial
Communication - Evidence from ChatGPT, Earnings Calls, and the Stock Market. Working
Paper, Available at SSRN: http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4699231.
Bhagwat, V., Dam, R., Harford, J. (2016). The Real Effects of Uncertainty on Merger Activity.
The Review of Financial Studies, 29 (11), 3000-3034.
Bhagwat, V., Shirley, S.E., Stark, J.R. (2024). Task-oriented speech and information
processing. Journal of Banking & Finance, 161, 107095.
Bonaime, A., Gulen, H., Ion, M., (2018). Does policy uncertainty affect mergers and
acquisitions? Journal of Financial Economics, 129 (3), 531-558.
Bond, S., Klok, H., Zhu, M. (2023). Large Language Models and Financial Market Sentiment.
Working Paper, Available at SSRN: http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4584928.
Brown, T, Mann, B. Ryder, N., Subbiah, M., Kaplan, J., Dhariwal, P., Neelakantan, A., Shyam,
P., Sastry, G., Askell, A., Agarwal, S., Herbert-Voss, A., Krueger, G., Henighan, T., Child, R.,
Ramesh, A., M. Ziegler, D.M., Wu, J., Winter, C., Hesse, C., Chen, M., Sigler, E., Litwin, M.,
Gray, S., Chess; B., Clark, J., Berner, C., McCandlish , S., Radford, A., Sutskever, I, Amodei,

28
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

D. (2020). Language Models are Few-Shot Learners. Working paper, Available at arXiv:
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2005.14165.
Campbell, J. Y., Thompson, S. B. (2008). Predicting the equity premium out of sample: Can
anything beat the historical average? The Review of Financial Studies, 21 (4), 1509–1531.
Carhart, M. (1997). On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance. The Journal of Finance,
52 (1), 57-82.
Chen, B., Wu, Z., Zhao, R. (2023). From Fiction to Fact: The Growing Role of Generative AI
in

Business

and

Finance.

Working

Paper,

Available

at

SSRN:

http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4528225.
Clark, T. E., West, K. D. (2007). Approximately normal tests for equal predictive accuracy
in nested models. Journal of Econometrics, 138 (1), 291–311.
Cornaggia, J., Li, J. Y. (2019). The value of access to finance: Evidence from M&As. Journal
of Financial Economics, 131 (1), 232-250.
Daley, B., Geelen, T., Green, B. (2024). Due Diligence. Journal of Finance, Forthcoming.
Working paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3702560.
Dittmar, A.K., Dittmar, R.F (2008). The timing of financing decisions: An examination of
the correlation in financing waves. Journal of Financial Economics, vol 90 (1), 59–83.
Dong, M., Hirshleifer, D., Richardson, S., Teoh, S.H. (2006). Does Investor Misvaluation
Drive the Takeover Market? Journal of Finance, 61 (2), 725-762.
Dong, M., Stratopoulos, T.C., Wang, V.X. (2023). A Scoping Review of ChatGPT Research
in

Accounting

and

Finance.

Working

paper,

Available

at

SSRN:

http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4680203.
Duchin, R., Schmidt, B. (2013). Riding the merger wave: Uncertainty, reduced monitoring,
and bad acquisitions. Journal of Financial Economics, 107 (1), 69-88.
Erel, I., Jan, Y., Minton, B.A., Weisbach, M.S. (2021). Corporate Liquidity, Acquisitions, and
Macroeconomic Conditions, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 56 (2), 443-474.

29
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Ferris, S.P., Jayaraman, N., Sabherwal, S. (2013). CEO Overconfidence and International
Merger and Acquisition Activity. Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 48 (1), 137–
164.
Gao, K.G. (2023). Prompt Engineering for Large Language Models: A brief guide with
examples

for

non-technical

readers.

Working

paper,

Available

at

SSRN:

http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4504303.
Gennaioli, N., Ma, Y., Shleifer, A. (2016). Expectations and Investment. NBER
Macroeconomics Annual, 30 (1), 379 – 431.
Gulen, H., Ion, M. (2015). Policy Uncertainty and Corporate Investment. The Review of
Financial Studies, 29 (3), 523-564.
Harford, J. (2005). What drives merger waves? Journal of Financial Economics, 77 (3), 529560.
Harvey, D.I., Leybourne, S.J., Newbold, P. (1998). Tests for forecast encompassing. Journal
of Business & Economic Statistics, 16 (2), 254–259.
Hansen, A.L., Kazinnik, S. (2023). Can ChatGPT Decipher Fedspeak? Working paper,
Available at SSRN: http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4399406.
Hertel, T., Kaya, T., Reichmann, D. (2024). Corporate culture and M&A deals: Using text
from crowdsourced employer reviews to measure cultural differences. Journal of Banking &
Finance, 161, 107118.
Huang, D., Jiang, F., Tu, J., Zhou, G. (2015). Investor sentiment aligned: A powerful predictor
of stock returns. The Review of Financial Studies, 28 (3), 791–837.
Humphery-Jenner, M, Liu, Y., Nanda, V., Silveri, S., Sun, M. (2024). Of fogs and bogs: Does
litigation risk make financial reports less readable? Journal of Banking & Finance, 163,
107180.
Jha, M., Qian, J., Weber, M., Yang, B. (2024). ChatGPT and Corporate Policies. Working
paper, Available at SSRN: http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4521096.
Jiang, F., Lee, J., Martin, X., Zhou, G. (2019). Manager sentiment and stock returns. Journal
of Financial Economics, 132 (1), 126-149.

30
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Jovanovic, B., Rousseau, P.L. (2002). The Q-Theory of Mergers. American Economic
Review, 92 (2), 198-204.
Karapandza, R (2016). Stock returns and future tense language in 10-K reports. Journal of
Banking & Finance, 71 (C), S.50-61.
Kim, A. G., Muhn, M., Nikolaev, V. V., (2023). Bloated Disclosures: Can ChatGPT Help
Investors

Process

Information?

Working

paper,

Available

at

SSRN:

http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4425527.
Kim, A. G., Muhn, M., Nikolaev, V. V., (2024). Financial Statement Analysis with Large
Language

Models.

Working

paper,

Available

at

SSRN:

http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4835311.
Kirtac, K., Germano, G. (2024). Sentiment trading with large language models. Finance
Research Letters, 62 (B), 105227.
Ko, H., Lee, J. (2023). Can ChatGPT Improve Investment Decisions? From a portfolio
management perspective. Finance Research Letters, 64, 105433.
Lee, J. (2016). Can Investors Detect Managers’ Lack of Spontaneity? Adherence to
Predetermined Scripts During Earnings Conference Calls. The Accounting Review, 91 (1),
229–250.
Li, K., Mai, F., Shen, R., Yang, C., Zhang, T. (2021). Dissecting Corporate Culture Using
Generative AI – Insights from Analyst Reports. Working paper, Available at SSRN:
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4558295.
Li, Y., Wang, S., Ding, H., Chen, H. (2023). Large Language Models in Finance: A Survey.
Working Paper, Available at arXiv: https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2311.10723.
Lopez-Lira, A., Tang, Y. (2023). Can ChatGPT Forecast Stock Price Movements? Return
Predictability and Large Language Models. Working paper, Available at SSRN:
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4412788.
Loughran, T., McDonald, B. (2011). When Is a Liability Not a Liability? Textual Analysis,
Dictionaries, and 10‐Ks. The Journal of Finance, 66 (1), 35-65.

31
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Loughran, T., McDonald, B. (2016). Textual Analysis in Accounting and Finance: A Survey.
The Journal of Accounting Research, 54 (4), 1187-1230.
Loughran, T., McDonald, B. (2024). Measuring Firm Complexity. The Journal of Financial
and

Quantitative Analysis,

(forthcoming).

Working

paper, Available

at

SSRN:

http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3645372.
Maksimovic, V., Phillips, G., Yang, L. (2013). Private and Public Merger Waves. The Journal
of Finance, 68 (5), 2177-2217.
Martynova, M., Renneboog, L. (2008). A century of corporate takeovers: What have we
learned and where do we stand? Journal of Banking & Finance, 32 (10), 2148-2177.
Massoud, N., Song, K., Tran, N. (2024). Lender effects on gains from mergers and
acquisitions. Journal of Banking & Finance, 163, 107171.
Matsumoto, D., Pronk, M., Roelofsen, E. (2011). What makes conference calls useful? The
information content of managers’ presentations and analysts’ discussion sessions. The
Accounting Review, 86 (4), 1383–1414.
McGurk, Z., Nowak, A., Hall, J.C. (2020). Stock Returns and Investor Sentiment: Textual
Analysis and Social Media. Journal of Economics and Finance, 44 (3), 458-485.
Morellec, E., Zhdanov, A. (2005). The dynamics of mergers and acquisitions. Journal of
Financial Economics, 77 (3), 649-672.
Price, M.S., Doran, J.S., Peterson, D.R., Bliss, B.A. (2012). Earnings Conference Calls and
Stock Returns: The Incremental Informativeness of Textual Tone. Journal of Banking &
Finance, 36 (4), 992–1011.
Rane, N., Choudhary, S., Rane, J. (2024). Gemini or ChatGPT? Efficiency, performance, and
adaptability of cutting-edge generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) in finance and accounting.
Working paper, Available at SSRN: http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4731283.
Rau, P.R., Stouraitis, A. (2011). Patterns in the Timing of Corporate Event Waves. The
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 46 (1), 209-246.

32
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Reynolds, L., McDonell, K., (2021). Prompt Programming for Large Language Models:
Beyond

the

Few-Shot

Paradigm.

Working

Paper,

Available

at

arXiv:

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2102.07350.
Rhodes-Kropf, M., Viswanathan, S. (2004). Market Valuation and Merger Waves. The
Journal of Finance, 59 (6), 2685-2718.
Rhodes-Kropf, M., Robinson, D., Viswanathan, S. (2005). Valuation waves and merger
activity: The empirical evidence. Journal of Financial Economics, 77 (3), 561-603.
Shleifer, A., Vishny, R. (2003). Stock market driven acquisitions. Journal of Financial
Economics, 70 (3), 295-311.
Sibley, S.E., Wang, Y., Xing, Y., Zhang, X. (2024). The information content of the sentiment
index. Journal of Banking & Finance, 62 (C), 164-179.
Stambaugh, R. F., Yu, J., Yuan, Y., (2012). The short of it: Investor sentiment and anomalies.
Journal of Financial Economics, 104 (2), 288-302.
Uysal, V.B. (2011). Deviation from the target capital structure and acquisition choices. Journal
of Financial Economics, 102 (3), 602–620.
Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones, L., Gomez, A.N., Kaiser, L.,
Polosukhin, I. (2017). Attention is all you need. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 30. Available at arXiv: https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1706.03762.
White, J., Fu, Q., Hays, S., Sandborn, M., Olea, C., Gilbert, H., Elnashar, A., Spencer-Smith,
J., Schmidt, D.C. (2024). A Prompt Pattern Catalog to Enhance Prompt Engineering with
ChatGPT. Working Paper, Available at arXiv: https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2302.11382.

33
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

A. Appendix
A.1. M&A keyword list
For the selection of possibly M&A relevant paragraphs, we have relied on the following key word list. As the
LLM is asked later on to identify whether the paragraph is actually M&A-related, we deliberately choose a
comprehensive key word list.

acquire
acquisition
add on
addon
anti trust review
antitrust review
apa

deal
deconsolidate
deconsolidation
disposal
dispose
divest
divestiture

letter of intent
loi
m&a
m & as
m&a
majority control
majority stake

asset purchase
agreement
asset swap
badwill
bidders
bolt on
bolton
break up
breakup
business
combination
buy and build
buy side
buyside
carve out
carveout
combined business
combined entity
consolidate
consolidation

divestment

merge

regulatory review
roll up
rollup
sale process
sell side
sellside
share purchase
agreement
spa

due diligence
earn out
earnout
equity investment
equity swap
goodwill
held for sale
ifrs 5

merger
merger control
minority stake
non binding bid
non binding offer
non core
nonbinding bid
nonbinding offer

spin off
spinoff
strategic buyer
strategic investment
strategic option
strategic rationale
synergies
synergy

indicative offer
initial public offering
inorganic
integration
interested parties
ipo
joint venture
jv

noncore
pmi
portfolio assessment
portfolio review
portfolio strategy
post merger
postmerger
private equity
public to private

takeover
target company
target search
trade sale
transaction
tuck in
tuckin
up for sale

34
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

A.2. Example paragraphs
Examples of paragraphs extracted from conference call transcripts based on the keyword list and the respective answers to the prompt.
Paragraph

GPT 4.0

„before kirsten tells you more about our financial performance for the quarter, let me
provide a brief update on our pending acquisition of vmware. we have received legal
merger clearance in australia, brazil, canada, the european union, israel, south africa,
taiwan and the united kingdom and foreign investment control clearance in all necessary
jurisdictions. in the u.s., the hart-scott-rodino premerger waiting periods have expired.
and there is no legal impediment to closing under u.s. merger regulations.“
"before i turn the call over to corning, I’d like to discuss the transaction we just
completed last week. we purchased all the outstanding shares of our largest minority
partner in indura, which is one of our industrial gas businesses in latin america.
following this transaction, we now own about 98% of indura. the valuation was agreed to
at the time of the initial purchase in 2012, and will be a use of cash of $278 million in
q4."
"now in terms of our strategy, i think you’ll see us do a lot of development organically,
and you’ll also see us continue to make acquisitions. and, as you know, recently we"ve
made acquisitions with xerocole and bloxx, and they are in the enterprise security space.
also, we’ve done organic development, taking the xerocole capability for carriers and
now in the process of bringing a product to market for enterprise security. "
"on the right, policy oriented stocks are shown, decline of jpy1.8b based upon the
acquisition cost. as you can see, we have been reducing the policy oriented stocks earlier
than other banks. in comparison to the end of march 2002, it has shrunk to one sixth
already. and whether to hold or sell will be determined based upon the realizability of
our medium to long term business prospects as well as risk and return. we would like to
continue to make efforts to reduce the policy oriented stocks holdings."
"no, we absolutely believe that every opportunity that we’ve seen over the last five years,
exists more today than at any other point. as we go into more markets, that gives us the
scale and infrastructure to continue going into more markets. as we build our
management teams, our technology platforms, very focused on delivering the fans and
our clients on a global basis. we just think we’re better at it, and we’re better able to go
into markets, and either build or acquire additional assets to keep doing exactly what
we’ve been doing."

GPT 3.5

Yes, 1, No

Yes, 0, No

Yes, 2, No

Human
Consensus
Yes, 1, No

Yes, 1, No

Yes, 0, No

Yes, 0, No

Yes, 0, No

Yes, 1, Yes

Yes, 2, Yes

Yes, 1, Yes

Yes, 1, Yes

No, Null, Null

Yes, 1, Yes

No, Null, Null

No, Null, Null

Yes, 1, Yes

Yes, 1, Yes

Yes, 1, Yes

Yes, 1, Yes

35
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Gemini

A.3. Testing different LLMs and comparing to human answers
Panel a): Based on a sample of 100 randomly selected M&A-relevant conference call transcripts, we have tested
different LLMs and compared their results. They all have been exposed to the same prompt.
GPT 3.5Perplexity
GPT 4.0
GPT 4o
Gemini
Claude
Turbo
AI
M&A related
68
66
53
66
43
61
(% yes answers)
Average sentiment (conditional
0.82
0.95
0.64
0.48
1.26
1.10
mean of yes answers)
Future reference
45
43
26
25
29
33
(conditional)
Panel b): In addition, we have collected responses from human M&A experts for the same sample and the same
prompt. The answers from the human subject matter experts do not deviate from the answers of most of the LLMs.
Human
Human
Human
Human
Human
Expert 1
Expert 2
Expert 3
Expert 4
Consensus
M&A related
65
68
60
62
65
(% yes answers)
Average sentiment (conditional
0.74
0.68
0.74
0.40
0.64
mean of yes answers)
Future reference
30
25
18
23
24
(conditional)
Panel c): Analyzing the correlation of the answers to the first question of the prompt (whether a paragraph is
M&A-related), we find the following correlations (Phi coefficients for correlation of binary variables) between
the LLMs and human experts:

36
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

A.4. Word Clouds for Texts with High and Low ChatGPT M&A Sentiment Score
These charts document the most frequent words associated with conference call texts with high and low ChatGPTbased M&A Sentiment Score. We exclude stop words and words that are time-related such as “year” “quarter”
etc. as well as metrics such as “million”, “billion”, etc. More frequent words are shown with bigger text fonts.
Panel (a) Word Cloud associated with high ChatGPT-based M&A Sentiment Score (+2).

Panel (b) Word Cloud associated with low ChatGPT-based M&A Sentiment Score (-2).

37
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

A.5. Definitions of variables and data
The following table lists the key variables used in this paper. All M&A and financial data is licensed from
commercial databases (such as Refinitv/LSEG, S&P Capital IQ, Bloomberg). Data for OECD_BCI, UM_CSI,
BAKER_WURGLER, and HUANG_ET_AL are available on their respective websites (see URLs in the table
below).

Variable
Historical deal volume

Definition
Number of M&A transactions with a
deal value of more than $100 million
USD

Source
Refinitiv/LSEG

IGR

Yield of global investment grade
bond index

Bloomberg

VIX

S&P 500 option-implied volatility
index

S&P Capital IQ

SPIDX

S&P Global 1200 index value

Bloomberg

SPVAL

S&P Global 1200 valuation multiple
based on enterprise value / forward
EBITDA
S&P Global 1200 leverage level
based on net debt / EBITDA

Bloomberg

OECD (2024), Business confidence
index (BCI) (indicator). doi:
10.1787/3092dc4f-en
University of Michigan Consumer
Sentiment Index

URL
(Accessed in February 2024)

BAKER_WURGLER

Index of equity market sentiment

URL
(Accessed in February 2024)

HUANG_ET_AL

Index of investor sentiment

URL
(Accessed in February 2024)

SPLEV
OECD_BCI
UM_CSI

Bloomberg

URL
(Accessed in February 2024)

38
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Figure 1: Raw M&A sentiment score versus M&A activity
The solid blue line depicts our raw M&A sentiment score while the solid red line stands for M&A deal activity
measured through monthly number of M&A deals with a deal value of at least $100 million USD. The dashed
and dotted lines depict the Baker and Wurgler (2006) investor sentiment index (BAKER_WURGLER), the
Huang et al. (2015) aligned investor sentiment index (HUANG_ET_AL), the Consumer Sentiment Index from
the University of Michigan (UM_CSI), and the OECD business confidence index (OECD_BCI). See Section 2.3
for detailed definitions of the indexes. All the measures are standardized to have zero mean and unit variance.
The sample period is 2013 to 2023.

39
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Figure 2: Correlation matrix: MASS and other indices
This correlation table shows the Pearson correlation coefficients for our MASS index and several other
measures of sentiment. By design, the coefficient can range from -1 (indicating perfect negative correlation) to
+1 (indicating perfect positive correlation).

40
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Table 1: Summary statistics
This table reports the summary statistics of the main variables used throughout this paper. We show the means,
minimums, 25% percentiles, medians, 75% percentiles, maximums, and standard deviations. Our sample period
2013 to 2023. All variables are measured at monthly frequency.

Variable

Mean

Min

25%perct.

Median

75%perct.

Max

Std.Dev.

Raw sentiment score
Historical deal volume
BAKER_WURGLER
HUANG_ET_AL
UM_CSI
OECD_BCI
IGR
VIX
SPIDX
SPVAL
SPLEV

0.80
245.0
0.14
-0.12
84.1
100.3
1.87
18.3
2438.0
10.5
2.12

0.63
97.0
-0.37
-1.04
50.0
96.8
0.82
9.5
1710.9
8.2
1.12

0.74
208.0
-0.19
-0.52
72.7
99.8
1.34
13.5
1926.2
9.5
1.80

0.80
246.0
-0.05
-0.22
88.9
100.4
1.65
16.3
2332.9
10.1
2.12

0.85
274.0
0.17
0.08
96.0
101.0
1.98
20.6
2953.4
11.1
2.58

1.00
405.0
2.08
1.62
101.4
102.1
4.35
53.5
3545.7
14.7
3.07

0.08
54.1
0.54
0.55
13.7
1.0
0.85
7.0
542.2
1.4
0.52

41
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Table 2: M&A activity vs. lagged sentiment score
This table reports the results of several OLS regressions with the following equations:
𝑦𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽𝑅𝑆𝑡−𝐿𝑎𝑔 + 𝜀𝑡 , for all lags in the table below separately.
Where 𝑅𝑆𝑡−𝐿𝑎𝑔 is the raw sentiment score in period t-Lag and 𝑦𝑡 is the number of M&A transactions larger than
$100 million USD in period t. The regression coefficient, its corresponding t-statistic and adjusted R2 are
reported. We used heteroskedasticity-robust standard errors and the null hypothesis 𝐻0 : 𝛽 = 0 . The sample
period is 2013 to 2023. No of observations: 100; Notes: * Significant at p< 0.1; ** Significant at p< 0.05; ***
Significant at p< 0.01.

Lag
β
t-stat 𝐀𝐝𝐣. 𝑹𝟐
1 month
89.04
1.39
0.9%
3 months
58.57
0.80
-0.1%
6 months
-110.66
-1.50
1.5%
9 months
-147.70** -2.55
3.3%
12 months -173.10*** -2.73
4.8%
18 months -232.75*** -3.50
9.1%
24 months -132.09*
-1.89
2.0%

42
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Table 3: M&A activity vs. difference in sentiment score
This table reports the results of several OLS regressions with the following equations:
𝑦𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽(𝑅𝑆𝑡 − 𝑅𝑆𝑡−𝐿𝑎𝑔 ) + 𝜀𝑡 , for all lags in the table below separately.
Where 𝑅𝑆𝑡 and 𝑅𝑆𝑡−𝐿𝑎𝑔 are the raw sentiment scores in period t and t-Lag, respectively, and 𝑦𝑡 is the number of
M&A transactions larger than $100 million USD in period t. The regression coefficient, its corresponding tstatistic and adjusted R2 are reported. We used heteroskedasticity-robust standard errors and the null hypothesis
𝐻0 : 𝛽 = 0. The sample period is 2013 to 2023. No of observations: 100; Notes: * Significant at p< 0.1; **
Significant at p< 0.05; *** Significant at p< 0.01.

Lag
1 month
3 months
6 months
9 months
12 months
18 months
24 months

β
-77.1
-12.3
73.9
133.9**
156.2**
138.6**
111.6*

t-stat
-0.84
-0.19
1.21
1.99
2.15
2.44
1.94

𝐀𝐝𝐣. 𝐑𝟐
0.1%
0.8%
1.2%
3.8%
5.1%
6.2%
2.8%

43
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Table 4: M&A activity vs. quintiles of sentiment score
This table reports the results of a multivariate OLS regression with the following equation:
𝑦𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽2 𝑄2 + 𝛽3 𝑄3 + 𝛽4 𝑄4 + 𝛽5 𝑄5 + 𝜀𝑡
Where 𝑄𝑖 is a dummy variable indicating whether the 18 months lagged value of the raw sentiment is in the i-th
quintile. The first quintile is captured by the constant. 𝑦𝑡 is the number of M&A transactions larger than $100
million USD in period t. The regression coefficient, its corresponding t-statistic and adjusted R2 are reported. We
used heteroskedasticity-robust standard errors and the null hypothesis 𝐻0 : 𝛽 = 0. The sample period is 2013 to
2023. Observations: 106; Notes: *** Significant at p< 0.01; Sentiment lagged 18 months. Adj. R2: 10.2%.

Variable

β

Std. Error

t-stat

Significance

Constant
Quintile 2
Quintile 3
Quintile 4
Quintile 5

248.22
13.63
7.68
4.01
-44.51

6.16
12.39
13.93
13.64
14.98

40.31
1.10
0.55
0.29
-2.97

***

***

44
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Table 5: Combination of lag and difference in sentiment score
This table reports the results of a multivariate OLS regression with the following equation:
𝑦𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽1 𝑅𝑆𝑡−18 + 𝛽2 (𝑅𝑆𝑡 − 𝑅𝑆𝑡−18 ) + 𝜀𝑡
Where 𝑅𝑆𝑡 and 𝑅𝑆𝑡−18 are the raw sentiment scores in period t and t-18, respectively, and 𝑦𝑡 is the number of
M&A transactions larger than $100 million USD in period t. The regression coefficient, its corresponding
standard error and t-statistic are reported. We used heteroskedasticity-robust standard errors and the null
hypothesis 𝐻0 : 𝛽 = 0. The sample period is 2013 to 2023. Observations: 106; Notes: *Significant at p<0.1; ***
Significant at p< 0.01. Adj. R2: 8.6%.

Constant
Sentiment lagged 18 months
Sentiment difference 18 months

β

Std. Error

t-stat

Significance

391.85
-185.69
48.41

74.87
93.74
78.80

5.23
-1.98
0.61

***
*

45
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Table 6: Incremental explanatory power of MASS score vs indices
This table reports the results of several multivariate OLS regressions with the following equations:
𝑦𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽1 𝑀𝐴𝑆𝑆𝑡 + 𝛽2 𝑋𝑡 + 𝜀𝑡
Where 𝑀𝐴𝑆𝑆𝑡 is our M&A sentiment score as defined previously and 𝑋𝑡 is another sentiment variable in period
t which varies across columns (1) to (4). In column (5), all other sentiment variables are used for 𝑋𝑡 . 𝑦𝑡 is the
number of M&A transactions larger than $100 million USD in period t. The regression coefficient and its
corresponding t-statistic are reported. We used heteroskedasticity-robust standard errors and the null hypothesis
𝐻0 : 𝛽 = 0. The sample period is 2013 to 2023. No of observations: 106; Notes: * Significant at p< 0.1; **
Significant at p< 0.05; *** Significant at p< 0.01.

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

MASS

-172.0**
(-2.36)

-221.07***
(-2.99)

-219.85***
(-3.35)

-112.15**
(-2.15)

-110.58*
(-1.89)

BAKER_WURGLER

-26.50***
(-2.99)

-31.83*
(-1.84)
-7.45
(-0.63)

HUANG_ET_AL

52.49***
(3.13)
1.02**
(2.07)

UM_CSI
OECD_BCI
𝐀𝐝𝐣. 𝑹𝟐

13.7%

8.7%

12.3%

1.92***
(3.49)
-34.97***
(-8.14)

-31.06***
(-7.19)

44.1%

49.8%

46
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Table 7: Fundamental factors that influence M&A activity
This table reports the results of several multivariate OLS regressions with the following equations:
𝑦𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽1 𝑀𝐴𝑆𝑆𝑡 + 𝛽2 𝐹𝑡 + 𝜀𝑡
Where 𝑀𝐴𝑆𝑆𝑡 is our M&A sentiment score as defined previously and 𝐹𝑡 is a fundamental factor in period t which
varies across columns (1) to (12). 𝑦𝑡 is the number of M&A transactions larger than $100 million USD in period
t. The regression coefficient and its corresponding t-statistic are reported. We used heteroskedasticity-robust
standard errors and the null hypothesis 𝐻0 : 𝛽 = 0. The sample period is 2013 to 2023. No of observations: 106;
Notes: * Significant at p< 0.1; ** Significant at p< 0.05; *** Significant at p< 0.01.

(1)
MASS
IGR
VIX
SPIDX

(2)

(3)

-162.86
(-2.36)
-27.42 -24.15
(-5.23) (-4.4)

(4)

(5)

-197.80
(-2.86)

(6)
-284.01
(-3.15)

(7)

(8)

(9)

-284.74
(-3.85)

(10)

(11)

-196.18
(-2.37)

(12)
-90.93
(-1.81)

-1.76 -1.15
(-2.58) (-1.85)
0.00 0.02
(0.03) (1.22)

SPVAL

3.07 9.78
(0.90) (1.85)

SPLEV

20.87 15.90
(2.24) (1.19)

OECD
36.26 34.08
_BCI
(9.55) (9.44)
𝐀𝐝𝐣. 𝑹𝟐 18.3% 23.0% 5.2% 10.3% 0.0% 10.6% 0.7% 13.2% 4.0% 9.7% 42.8% 46.3%

47
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Table 8: FORECAST ENCOMPASSING TEST
This table presents the p-values for the Harvey et al. (1998) statistic applied to our MASS and the other sentiment
indexes. The statistic pertains to a one-sided test of the null hypothesis, which assumes that the predictive
regression forecast for the monthly M&A volume, based on the predictor listed in the first column, encompasses
the forecast based on the predictor listed in the first row. The alternative hypothesis suggests that the forecast
from the first column predictor does not encompass the forecast from the first-row predictor. The predictors used
in this analysis are MASS, BAKER_WURGLER, HUANG_ET_AL, UM_CSI and OECD_BCI. The sample
period covers 2013 to 2023.

MASS
MASS
BAKER_WURGLER
HUANG_ET_AL
UM_CSI
OECD_BCI

0.11
0.00
0.07
0.39

BAKER_
WURGLER
0.01
0.02
0.00
0.07

HUANG_ET_AL

UM_CSI

OECD_BCI

0.98
1.00

0.23
0.44
0.00

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

0.99
0.95

0.34

48
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

Table 9: OUT-OF-SAMPLE FORECASTING
This table presents the out-of-sample performance in predicting the monthly M&A volume using MASS,
BAKER_WURGLER, HUANG_ET_AL, UM_CSI and OECD_BCI. The two additional variables
EW_MASS_BCI and FREE_MASS_BCI denote the equally weighted and period-specific optimized,
respectively, averages of MASS and OECD_BCI. All out-of-sample forecasts are estimated recursively with data
available at the forecast formation time. R2OS is the out-of-sample R2 measure from Campbell and Thompson
(2008), indicating the reduction in mean squared forecast error (MSFE) for the competing predictive regression
forecast compared to the historical average benchmark forecast. Adj. MSFE is the MSFE-adjusted statistic from
Clark and West (2007), used to test the null hypothesis that the historical average forecast MSFE is less than or
equal to the competing predictive regression forecast MSFE, against the one-sided (upper-tail) alternative
hypothesis. The sample period covers 2013 to 2023.

MASS
BAKER_WURGLER
HUANG_ET_AL
UM_CSI
OECD_BCI
EW_MASS_BCI
FREE_MASS_BCI

R2OS

Adj. MSFE

p-value adj. MSFE

9.4%
4.4%
-6.5%
3.2%
49.1%
50.5%
49.6%

1.97
2.61
1.64
1.54
5.41
5.48
5.23

0.024
0.004
0.050
0.061
0.000
0.000
0.000

49
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency
Contact:
Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. Dr. h.c. Caren Sureth-Sloane
Paderborn University
Faculty of Business Administration and Economics
Department of Taxation, Accounting and Finance
Warburger Str. 100, 33098 Paderborn, Germany
trr266@mail.upb.de
www.accounting-for-transparency.de
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121

